My goal is for the first half of this
course to really be just, again as I said,
breaking down DevOps.
We're gonna go through a lot of different
thought experiments, we're gonna
look at how again the philosophy of DevOps
is really kind of lined out or outlined.
And then the second half we're
just gonna be programming.
So [LAUGH] it's gonna be fun but
the first part is definitely gonna
be a little bit of theory and
philosophy before we get into craft.
So let's talk about what exists today.
There's a lot of things, as I said,
that currently exist in DevOps
that are not really helpful.
And I'm hoping that these things
that I exemplify are things that
you probably have even seen
at your own companies.
And these are purely experiences
I've gone through myself as well.
So this is stuff I've experienced.
First off, as I said, and
kind of as we've started our course,
DevOps is poorly defined
right now in the industry.
Because DevOps is a broad and somewhat
abstract concept, it is difficult for
companies to find and implement it
in a concrete and consistent way.
Everybody's got an opinion on it in most
regards, and depending on who you talk to,
what company you're looking at or
you're talking to and things like that.
The way that they handle DevOps
is sometimes entirely different.
And there are definitely people who
have left one company thinking,
I know how this works, I can go somewhere
else and then gone somewhere else and
realized that actually the way
they did it was incredibly niche.
There's no real generalization
to what they did, and
it's actually didn't probably help
you much in your learning process.
And I do really think a lot of that is
just because it is really poorly defined
right now.
It really is more of what do you
think DevOps is rather than what
we're trying to define it as a ecosphere,
I guess.
Culture challenges, right?
So because DevOps is poorly defined, and
essentially because that impacts culture,
there are culture shifts that can happen
within an organization because of DevOps,
and nine times out of ten,
those go nowhere.
It can be very challenging for
companies to integrate and
adopt new things into their practices.
And the reality of it is is nine
times out of ten, most don't want to.
And it's not in the sense that it's
not something we'd love to see but
it's more so you have to deal with
business, you have to deal with trying
to make sure that the rest of the company
is on board with you and culture is hard.
Culture is very hard to change, especially
if we're talking about a company that's
been doing something one way for
a very long time.
Again, can kind of start showing you how
these start becoming compounding issues.
Where because DevOps is poorly defined,
and
because we are, again as I said before,
having culture challenges,
we now start dealing with
communication issues, right?
Basically a lack of
clear communication and
collaboration between these
teams that can lead to errors.
And I guarantee you each
of us here have seen this.
A release goes out, somebody
didn't communicate something about
some common practice that we do,
a feature flag didn't get flipped.
Got to roll back.
As I said, technically,
you can solve a problem one way, but
there's always human error.
There's always gonna be human error, and
that's what DevOps is focused on solving,
the human error, the human side of it.
And so
if you have this missing communication and
another common cases
like documentation even.
How many of us have dealt with not being
able to find documentation on something
because specific software
are really hard to navigate or
there wasn't a good organization around
those documentation and things like that.
That's DevOps.
That is a circumstance where DevOps
can see that and say like, okay,
how do we fix this?
And because of that, right, again,
because of the proper definition,
because of the culture challenges,
because of the missing communication,
we get suboptimal solutions, right?
And again, because developers and IT
professionals may not be working together
as efficiently and as effectively,
we basically result in suboptimal
solutions that do not meet the needs
of the business or the end users.
And this is also very,
very common in DevOps.
I would imagine most of us can say we've
seen some part of subinfrastructure or
something we've just kind of looked at and
went, what?
And it's true,
it's probably some type of suboptimal
solution that was half baked or
not fully put together.
And because of that,
now we're dealing with some type
of weird technical debt that we don't
really want to have to deal with, right?
So where do we begin?
And I'm gonna say I think Moss from
the IT Crowd does a pretty good job of
describing what DevOps can feel like.
So you'll see a few of his gifts in here.
But yeah, I wanted to show you guys first
and foremost what exists today because
once you start thinking about what exists
today, that's probably how you feel.
[LAUGH] Just like okay, well,
there's fire around me, where do we begin?
Well, we're gonna start from scratch.
As I said, I want you to forget
what you've seen about DevOps,
I want you to forget what
you've heard about DevOps, and
you've done with DevOps.
I want you to completely just blank
your mind of any knowledge that
you have preconceiving to it.
And I'm gonna be honest as well,
this is something I had to do before I
could start understanding how to
become a good DevOps engineer.
Because I was constantly taking things
that I've said,okay, well what about this?
Or okay, what about that or
things like that and
jumping way too far
ahead than I needed to.
So starting from scratch is probably
gonna be the best case scenario here.